# [CodeSignal announces new IDE for the hiring process](https://sdtimes.com/softwaredev/codesignal-announces-new-ide-for-the-hiring-process/)
### SD Times, published 9/16/2021 by Katie Dee

Many of us are nearing the end of our college stints and approaching the real world job market at full force. They key word is "many" of us – the CEO of CodeSignal cites that "traditionally [a hiring manager] would reject 90-95% of candidates because there’s so much volume and no capacity to actually conduct interviews." There are a lot of reasons a company with a large volume of applications would reject an applicant, whether it be the whim of a hiring manager skimming a resume, the whim of an AI picking out keywords from a resume, or god forbid, an automated rejection based on a 20-minute multiple-choice personality test, without any reliable assessment of soft and technical skills (that last one I recently experienced, and I was equally confused and indignant).

But I've also noticed that some companies send out coding assessments to some or all of its applicants as a more robust layer of screening, using one of a few popular online IDEs, of which HackerRank might be the most salient. CodeSignal's new IDE aims to push the limitations of existing online IDEs, with support for files and application previews, and – potentially at the final stage of hiring – an assessment that a human interviewer can supervise live and remotely. While this does mean potential applicants will want to get their skills up to snuff, that was supposed to be the low bar anyway; hopefully, CodeSignal's innovation will be a step towards making the hiring process fairer and better for both the hirer and the hiree in an ever-expanding job market.


## Kaan Karakas Comment 28th September

I found this article really fascinating because as a fellow student I am currently looking for Software Engineering internships and codesignal is definetly one of the popular test ones. I found algorithmic questions pain because it doesn't represent what we actually do in a project development. As a person who has worked at a fintech company as a software engineer none of the work I did actually required me to strictly get O(n) solution to a problem. Although, there were concerns about storage usage and efficiency the refactoring were not done by changing the algorithms. The new codesignal that will test the really project development is something that I am excited for. Thank you for sharing this article with the class.
